README.md, before:

# Noctalia SDDM Theme (unofficial)

This repo represents my current attempts to mimic the Noctalia lock screen as a
theme for SDDM with the kanagawa color sheme as default

Inspiration: [Noctalia SDDM Theme](https://github.com/mahaveergurjar/sddm/tree/noctalia)
and [Noctalia Dev](https://noctalia.dev/)

> [!NOTE]
> Most of the scripts were made with the help of Chatgipity + some common sense.
> First time for me diving into `.qml` language.

![Preview Image](Assets/preview.webp "Preview")

## Features

- Multiple user support (clicking top card allows you to switch between users)
- Color sync with Notcatlia-Shell via user-templates (optional)
- Script for instalation / removal `./installer/install.sh
  - theme dir : `/usr/share/sddm/themes/noctalia`
  - sddm.conf : `/etc/sddm.conf` if default is not found you will be prompted
    to select a .conf file from within `/etc/sddm.conf.d/` directory
  - shell integration: `~/.config/noctalia/user-templates.toml` (optional)
- Wallpaper sync with Noctalia-Shell via script `sync-shell-wallpaper.sh` (optional)
- Various customizable settings via `theme.config` or
  `theme.template.config` see [Configuration](#configuration) section

> [!NOTE]
> Theme Dependencies
> `qt5-graphicaleffects` and `qt5-quickcontrols2`
> Misc Dependencies (installer)
> `jq` - used for handling .json mutations (wallpaper-sync)
> `awk` - use for handling .conf mutations (installer)

### Curent WIP

- Clean-up refactor and optimize

## Instalation

Clone repo with `git clone https://github.com/mda-dev/noctalia-sddm-theme.git noctalia`

For quick information about what the installer will do,
you can run it with `--dry-run` argument and no changes will be made.

<details>
  <summary> Automatic (with scripts) </summary>
  Run the installer script from within the installer directory.

```sh
sudo bash ./installer/install.sh
```

You will be prompted during the installation for the following optional features:

- Noctalia-Shell color sync
- Noctalia-Shell wallpaper sync.

If you install / configure the sync "features" you will need to change
the color scheme and wallpaper once for changes to take effect.

After installation you can use the [Test command](#test-theme-installation)
to view results

</details>

<details>
  <summary>
    Manual (scriptless)
  </summary>

### Theme

Copy directory to sddm themes with `sudo cp -r noctalia /usr/share/sddm/themes`

Activate theme by opening either default `/etc/sddm.conf` or `/etc/sddm.conf.d/CUSTOM.conf`
and changing the `Current` key to the following:

```ini
[Theme]
Current=noctalia
```

### Noctalia-Shell (optional)

Set file permissions for theme.conf (needed for Noctalia-Shell)

```sh
sudo chmod 666 "/usr/share/sddm/themes/noctalia/theme.conf"
```

### Color-Sync

Enable User Templates in Noctalia-Shell `Settings > Color Schemes > Templates`

Edit `~/.config/noctalia/user-templates.toml` Add the following lines to the bottom:

```ini
# SDDM GREETER
[templates.sddm]
input_path = "/usr/share/sddm/themes/noctalia/theme.template.conf"
output_path = "/usr/share/sddm/themes/noctalia/theme.conf"
```

### Wallpaper-sync

Open Noctalia-Shell `Settings > Hooks` and add the following inside
"Wallpaper changed" then press the Test button

```sh
/usr/share/sddm/themes/noctalia/sync-shell-wallpaper.sh
```

Set file permissions for wallpaper.png (gets overwritten by the script)

```sh
sudo chmod 666 "/usr/share/sddm/themes/noctalia/Assets/wallpaper.png"
```

</details>

## Test theme installation

```sh
sddm-greeter --test-mode --theme /usr/share/sddm/themes/noctalia
```

## Configuration

The place where you can configure some settings changes
depending if you enable Color-Sync

<details>
<summary>With Color-Sync</summary>
Open `theme.template.conf` with your favorite editor and change any of the values 
you see fit and then refresh your theme within Noctalia settings

> [!CAUTION]
> Do not change values start with the letter `m` ex `mPrimary`, those are set by Noctalia-Shell
> whenever you change your theme.
> The Color-Sync won't work anymore

</details>

<details>
<summary>Without Color-Sync (standalone)</summary>
Open `theme.conf` file with your favorite editor and
change any of the values you see fit.

```sh
sudo nano /etc/share/sddm/themes/noctalia/theme.conf
```

</details>

Commit message:

chore: Add avatar configuration documentation to README.md

README.md, after:

# Noctalia SDDM Theme (unofficial)

This repo represents my current attempts to mimic the Noctalia lock screen as a
theme for SDDM with the kanagawa color sheme as default

Inspiration: [Noctalia SDDM Theme](https://github.com/mahaveergurjar/sddm/tree/noctalia)
and [Noctalia Dev](https://noctalia.dev/)

> [!NOTE]
> Most of the scripts were made with the help of Chatgipity + some common sense.
> First time for me diving into `.qml` language.

![Preview Image](Assets/preview.webp "Preview")

## Features

- Multiple user support (clicking top card allows you to switch between users)
- Color sync with Notcatlia-Shell via user-templates (optional)
- Script for instalation / removal `./installer/install.sh`
  - theme dir : `/usr/share/sddm/themes/noctalia`
  - sddm.conf : `/etc/sddm.conf` if default is not found you will be prompted
    to select a .conf file from within `/etc/sddm.conf.d/` directory
  - shell integration: `~/.config/noctalia/user-templates.toml` (optional)
- Wallpaper sync with Noctalia-Shell via script `sync-shell-wallpaper.sh` (optional)
- Various customizable settings via `theme.config` or
  `theme.template.config` see [Configuration](#configuration) section

> [!NOTE]
> Theme Dependencies
> `qt5-graphicaleffects` and `qt5-quickcontrols2`
> Misc Dependencies (installer)
> `jq` - used for handling .json mutations (wallpaper-sync)
> `awk` - use for handling .conf mutations (installer)

### Curent WIP

- Clean-up refactor and optimize

## Instalation

Clone repo with `git clone https://github.com/mda-dev/noctalia-sddm-theme.git noctalia`

For quick information about what the installer will do,
you can run it with `--dry-run` argument and no changes will be made.

<details>
  <summary> Automatic (with scripts) </summary>
  Run the installer script from within the installer directory.

```sh
sudo bash ./installer/install.sh
```

You will be prompted during the installation for the following optional features:

- Noctalia-Shell color sync
- Noctalia-Shell wallpaper sync.

If you install / configure the sync "features" you will need to change
the color scheme and wallpaper once for changes to take effect.

After installation you can use the [Test command](#test-theme-installation)
to view results

</details>

<details>
  <summary>
    Manual (scriptless)
  </summary>

### Theme

Copy directory to sddm themes with `sudo cp -r noctalia /usr/share/sddm/themes`

Activate theme by opening either default `/etc/sddm.conf` or `/etc/sddm.conf.d/CUSTOM.conf`
and changing the `Current` key to the following:

```ini
[Theme]
Current=noctalia
```

### Noctalia-Shell (optional)

Set file permissions for theme.conf (needed for Noctalia-Shell)

```sh
sudo chmod 666 "/usr/share/sddm/themes/noctalia/theme.conf"
```

### Color-Sync

Enable User Templates in Noctalia-Shell `Settings > Color Schemes > Templates`

Edit `~/.config/noctalia/user-templates.toml` Add the following lines to the bottom:

```ini
# SDDM GREETER
[templates.sddm]
input_path = "/usr/share/sddm/themes/noctalia/theme.template.conf"
output_path = "/usr/share/sddm/themes/noctalia/theme.conf"
```

### Wallpaper-sync

Open Noctalia-Shell `Settings > Hooks` and add the following inside
"Wallpaper changed" then press the Test button

```sh
/usr/share/sddm/themes/noctalia/sync-shell-wallpaper.sh
```

Set file permissions for wallpaper.png (gets overwritten by the script)

```sh
sudo chmod 666 "/usr/share/sddm/themes/noctalia/Assets/wallpaper.png"
```

</details>

## Test theme installation

```sh
sddm-greeter --test-mode --theme /usr/share/sddm/themes/noctalia
```

## Configuration
#### Avatar
The theme searches for the following files in the exact order they are listed below.
Once a file has been found the search stops.
```
$HOME/.face.icon
$HOME/.face
/usr/share/sddm/faces/$USER/.face.icon
/var/lib/AccountsService/icons/$USER
/usr/share/sddm/themes/noctalia/Assets/logo.svg
```

#### General UI
The place where you can configure some settings changes
depending if you enable Color-Sync

<details>
<summary>With Color-Sync</summary>

  Open `theme.template.conf` with your favorite editor and change any of the values 
  you see fit and then refresh your theme within Noctalia settings

> [!CAUTION]
> Do not change values start with the letter `m` ex `mPrimary`, those are set by Noctalia-Shell
> whenever you change your theme.
> The Color-Sync won't work anymore

</details>

<details>
<summary>Without Color-Sync (standalone)</summary>

  Open `theme.conf` file with your favorite editor and  
  change any of the values you see fit.

```sh
sudo nano /etc/share/sddm/themes/noctalia/theme.conf
```

</details>
